(BORUTO) You guys?!
Team 10! What are you doing
here?
Seems I was right.
I figured you guys went after
Mitsuki and would be right
around here.
And my Super Beast Scroll made
it easy to catch up to you.
You mean you were sent out to
capture Mitsuki?!
Well, almost. But not quite.
[gasp] Watch out!
[gasps and grunts]
[growl] Look, don't waste our
time!
What's the big idea?!
We ought to be asking you that!
It's only natural to interpret
your actions as desertion.
So we were sent out here to
bring the two of you back to
the village!
Even though we
don't like it...
You mean Team 10 is hunting us
down?
Sorry, but orders are orders.
And if you resist, then we'll
have to use...
...force.
[nervous grunt]
Shikadai!
We're bringing you guys back to
the village. Because that's our
mission.
I'm sure you know, but... if you
refuse, you'll be branded as
Rogue Ninja.
That's right, and we really
don't want to see that happen!
So, come on, Sarada!
Cho-Cho...
Just hold on for a minute, would
ya, guys?!
I have to see Mitsuki one more
time and find out the truth from
him!
I understand you're worried
about your friend.
But investigating the incident
isn't your mission, now, is it?
[grunt] You're telling me I
can't help a friend unless it's
a mission?!
No, that's not it!
I'm saying that you're making
this situation dangerous cause
you're rushing in all frantic!
You saying I'm being
irrational?!
(SHIKADAI) Yeah!
I get why you'd wanna rush in.
Mistuki's a friend.
But it's exactly because he's a
friend that you should be cool
and rational about this, right?
[grunt]
I can't do that.
[grunt] Boruto!
Shikadai, I can admit you're
making a strong argument.
But all the same, I just have to
go and find Mitsuki!
You mean...
[sigh] Sadly, I don't think
we're gonna be able to convince
them to come.
Ughhh!
[gasp] Get ready.
Ninja Art: Super Beast Scroll!
[grunt]
Partial Expansion Jutsu! Ahhh!
[grunts]
That was too close!
[grunt]
[grunts]
I'd expect as much from Moegi
Sensei. I've got no choice!
[grunts]
I'm sorry. You're eyes are truly
amazing... But I'm not a jonin
for nothing.
Don't worry though. I'll do
my best not to hurt Konohamaru's
student!
[grunts]
They're strong...
It's hard for any of us to use
jutsu that might be lethal to
you...
Luckily, there are lots of other
methods that we can use to
capture you.
Yeah! Exactly!
Sealing Jutsu: Crouching Tiger
Bullet!
Not good! [grunts]
Boruto! [grunts]
Sorry, Sarada! We're taking you
home. If it has to be like this,
then fine!
[straining]
What is-?! I-I can't move!
This is a new special move that
my Dad just taught me. Bet you
didn't know about this...
did ya?!
Even a problem child who won't
listen can't escape if he's
gotten sealed away in a scroll!
[grunts] Oh, yeah?
[grunt]
Huh? Ah!
What's that?!
[grunting]
Huh? What the-?
Sorry, Cho-Cho!
Ah! Ahhh!
Wait! Stop!
[grunts and heavy breathing]
[gasp]
No!
They got away...
What was the jutsu Boruto just
did?
He had a special jutsu up his
sleeve, huh...?
I figured out the pattern to
their actions.
Twenty-seven more moves and it's
over.
Hey, Yurito. You just loafing
around again, or-?
So this is where you are...!
[gasp]
Oh, thank you! You can just put
it down right there.
Hm? What's wrong?
I get the feeling you're here
for something else...
I heard that only Team 10 was
sent out to go retrieve Boruto
and Sarada. What's up with that?
Finding Mitsuki and bringing him
back is our top priority.
But we don't have the manpower
to add to Team 10.
[growl] That isn't what I mean!
Pitting friends against each
other makes things hard!
Look, you don't have anything to
worry about. He learned a lot in
the Byakuya Gang incident.
He'll do the right thing, even
if they're friends.
Mm... Well, I suppose that's
okay...
Besides...
...I know him. He's probably
thinking the same thing I'm
thinking.
What? Come on! Spare me the
whole proud dad act.
Well... it's the perfect mission
for him.
I see... They tried to deceive
us with Shadow Clones...
Just as Shikadai predicted.
You're up next.
Roger that!
The trees will be sparse from
here on out...
...which means they aren't going
to be able to hide from aerial
tracking.
Yeah, but... even though it's an
order...
I still don't like the
idea of having to battle
Sarada...
Hey, c'mon. I mean, it isn't
like we have to kill them!
If we can capture them this
time, then it's over.
Wait, Shikadai! Are you just
forcing yourself to do this?
Uh...! What's that supposed to
mean?
I knew it! You act like you're
cool with all this, but
really...
you're worried about Boruto and
Mitsuki too, right?
Shut up! Is that wrong?!
'Course not! I mean, I know that
you're a surprisingly kind
person.
Yeah, well, Mitsuki's my friend
too.
That's why we can't let this
thing get any bigger than it is
now.
You're right.
Mitsuki is why Boruto and Sarada
deserted...
and that certainly won't improve
his standing in the village.
So Lord Seventh won't be able to
keep protecting him?
Is that what you mean?
Mm.
That's why stopping them here
isn't only for their sake, it's
also for Mitsuki's sake...
as well.
So unless their reason's
perfectly rational...
we can't really lend any merit
to whatever they might have to
say.
Seems like you understand!
For everyone's sake, huh?
What bothers me is that even the
normally level-headed Sarada
went off with Boruto.
There must be something pushing
them to do this.
But if so, what is it?
(INOJIN) Found 'em!
Huh?!
What?
But there are two pairs!
There are two sets of Boruto and
Sarada going in opposite
directions.
Shadow Clones, huh. What do you
think Shikadai?
Seems like a classic strategy to
split up our fighting power.
We'll go after one pair of them.
Moegi Sensei, the other.
I get it. Take down the decoys,
and then regroup.
I see! So, then... whoever finds
them...
Yeah. We'll still have the
advantage.
It's gonna be checkmate, Boruto.
Huh?!
What's wrong?
Moegi Sensei just took out both
of our decoys...
Man, she's good...
[gasp]
[grunts and gasp]
They caught up already?!
Well, it seems like we've got
the real ones.
I really think that you should
give this whole thing up now.
Do we really have to fight each
other, Cho-Cho?
It's hard for me, too... Aghhh!
Nuh-uh! Sorry, but I'm not gonna
hold back this time around.
Sarada!
[gasp]
Boruto, I won't show any mercy
to you or to Mitsuki, either.
I'll stop you right here!
[gasp] Oh yeah?
I guess neither of us is
willing to bend for friendship.
Hmph!
Well... it seems there's no
other way. So let's do this!
First, Shadow Clones to confuse
us...
Shadow Clone Jutsu!
Obvious!
Hm?!
Bleh!
I'm gonna get you with one shot!
[pained grunts]
Then Sarada will take
advantage of the chaos...
If I take down the command
post...
[pained groans] Eh...!
[grunt]
Whoaaa!
[pained grunt]
Are you okay, Sarada? [grunt]
I've seen the same strategy over
and over. It may work on other
people...
but it's not gonna work
on me.
Hmph! Seriously?! You think
you've got this already?
And I know that desperate trick,
as well.
Okay, again!
Sarada, help out!
Like I'd let you!
[grunt]
Oh, yeah? Cha!
Yeah! [straining]
[grunt]
[worried groan]
[grunt] Ah!
[pained grunt]
Let's go!
Yeah!
Now! Boruto Stream!
How bout an aerial attack?! Try
this!
Ah!
[gasp]
You're done!
Hmph!
[straining]
Ha Ha!
Shadow Paralysis...
...now complete.
[straining] Boruto! [pained
struggling]
Everything's going just the way
you said, Shikadai.
I figured that you'd believe a
plan as simple as this one would
actually work. And I was right.
D-Damn it!
So you switched in the
explosion!
Moegi Sensei's gonna be here
soon.
Sorry, but that's checkmate,
Boruto.
Shikadai... I have to find
Mitsuki!
You idiot!
[strained grunt]
You can't just leave Mitsuki
alone, just like I can't leave
you alone!
I can't just stand by and watch
you be reckless!
Shikadai!
Huh?! Wha-?! Isn't that...?!
(SHIKAMARU) To begin with...
I think there's more to this
incident than merely what meets
the eye.
And what does that mean?
Whether Mitsuki was behind the
attack on the gate or not...
he couldn't have pulled it off
all alone.
You mean...?
...that it's some kind of
conspiracy, then?
I can't say it is for sure.
But... it is also possible that
Boruto and Sarada have managed
to find some kind of clue.
So... let me guess: the reason
you sent Shikadai...
I'm not able to leave my post
right now.
So, then... if for some reason,
Shikadai does uncover
something...
...then he'll be able to make
the optimum decision.
(SHIKADAI) I'm gonna get going.
Right.
Shikadai, you know the
proverb...?
"The knight that jumps far can
fall prey to a pawn."
Meaning, if a knight tries to
charge in alone...
he could be taken down when he
isn't expecting it.
Yeah, I know the proverb.
Well. That's good, then.
He won't get ahead of himself. I
made sure.
[sigh]
Well... hopefully, it doesn't
backfire.
(SHIKADAI) Is that the snake
Mitsuki uses to send messages?
Where'd you find it?
Just outside the Leaf Village.
Well, then? Tell me what message
he gave to you?
It was just something super
vague! It said, "This is my
will", okay?!
But still, something big is
going on with him! He left me
this message!
So it has to mean
something!
And I gotta find out what that
is!
[pained grunts] Boruto!
All this time, I really believed
I knew him well. But
actually...
I didn't know anything at all!
That's why I have to go!
Hey, what's up, Shikadai?
Seems the game board has
changed.
Sorry, dad...
[gasp]
[gasp] Huh?
I'm going with Boruto.
What?!
They're probably fighting the
real pair by now... I gotta
hurry!
[gasp]
Who's there?
Could he be... one of the
assailants?
Tell me, what village are you
from?
Oh? Won't answer? Okay... I
guess I'll just have to beat you
into confessing!
[grunt]
[grunt] Huh?!
[grunts]
He's strong! Who is he?!
Water Style: Water Hail!
Hey! What is going on?!
Wait. Just hold on. First hear
me out, okay?
Just think about it...
If Mitsuki truly wanted to leave
the village...
why would he have to attack the
guards at the gate?
He would've had plenty of
opportunities to simply sneak
away.
That's true.
And then there's this snake,
too...
Mitsuki took the time to leave
Boruto a message.
I don't understand. What about
it?
If he's actually a spy who
betrayed the village, wouldn't
that be kinda weird?
Would he really want to leave
behind such damaging evidence?
Uh... You know , you might have
a point, but...
Breaking through security,
leaving the message...
I can't believe that was all
premeditated...
Mitsuki might be caught up in
the middle of some unthinkable
situation.
So then... you're saying you
believe Mitsuki's innocent?
I didn't say that. Don't jump to
conclusions.
It's just that all these little
suspicions...
...are starting to add up to one
big suspicion. And that flips
the game board.
So, in order to try to clear up
this mystery, I'm going with you
Boruto.
Shikadai!
Like I told you, Mitsuki's my
friend as well.
And besides, you're way too
reckless.
But don't go celebrating just
yet.
The incident with the
guards still hasn't been
disproven.
If it turns out that Mitsuki
really is a traitor, then that's
that.
[laughing] You talk a lot, but
as of right now, you're as
guilty as me!
Oh, shut up, I'm not like you!
After all, at least I'm able to
think things through!
I'm sorry... But please
apologize to Moegi Sensei for
me.
Hey, are you serious?
Boruto's right! You'll be called
a deserter, too! Come on,
Cho-Cho, say something...
would ya?!
Hmmm... Alright! Well then, I'm
going with Sarada too!
Uh...!
Seriously! I mean...
I don't wanna be the one to get
yelled at by Moegi Sensei for
not stopping you guys.
And besides, I also wanna help
you out, Sarada!
[chuckle] Cho-Cho, you're the
best!
Ugh, seriously? [sigh]
Well, I don't wanna get stuck
with the short end of the stick
either...
Wait... Don't tell me that...
Look...
...all three of us together make
up Ino-Shika-Cho, don't we?
Well, alright... Since it's come
to this, then I'm just gonna say
that you two forced me into it.
You guys!
[chuckle]
[exasperated sigh] You're kinda
sticking your nose into our
business...
Yeah, like you're one to talk!
We haven't been together
this long for nothing, right?
Huh?!
[gasp]
[grunts]
Huh?! [grunts]
He's gone... Why did he retreat?
He wasn't even trying to kill
me. What was he doing?
[gasp] He was buying time! Oh
no! The kids!
[grunt and gasp]
(CHO-CHO) We're sorry,
Moegi-Sensei!
Damn those rotten kids! How dare
they! Aghhh!
Ryuchi Cave, huh?
Yeah. We're heading there so the
White Snake Sage can extract
information from Mitsuki's
snake.
I'm starting to get a really bad
feeling about this whole
thing...
To deal with the White Snake
Sage, we can't use ordinary
methods.
We don't know if they're friend
or foe. There's no point in
worrying about it now.
Look at us! We were all
fighting, and now you're coming
all with us!
Come on, don't be so naive. I
just explained that I don't
fully believe you yet.
All I wanna do is find out the
truth. That's why I'm coming.
Sorry, Dad. The knight ended up
falling prey to a pawn after
all.
But... there's no way I can
leave them to do this alone.
It's too dangerous.
I feel like
it's beyond them.
Man, this is a real drag...
[sigh] I think this ought to be
far enough, right?
It sure isn't easy slowing down
a jonin without showing your
cards.
[sigh] That guys's impulses
always cause such a headache for
me...
Or maybe he's just a proud
dad...
Oh... [shivering] This is super
creepy! [groan]
Ryuchi Cave should be just up
ahead...
Yeah... Let's go!
(INOJIN) So what's Ryuchi Cave
like?
(SARADA) It's a place of this
world, while at the same time,
not of this world.
It's a secluded site where Sages
live and undergo severe
training.
(INOJIN) Uhhh... Are we gonna
make it out of there alive?
(BORUTO) [chuckle] Guess there's
no telling what we might stir
up...
Next time on Boruto Naruto Next
Generations: "The Trials of
Ryuchi Cave."
Just you wait!, White Snake
Sage! We're definitely gonna
find you!